src/README.md, before:

# Organization and Packages

Organization strategy:
* sipnet and derivative programs each have their own directory
* stand-alone utilities all go into the `utilities` subdirectory

## Main program - SIPNET

[Add description here of SIPNET's "compilation switch" strategy - which hopefully
will become command-line params at some point, but not yet. We need to doc the
possible switches somewhere...]

## SIPNET derivatives

**estimate**: The parameter estimation program for SIPNET. Its operation is
controlled by the file 'estimate.in'.

**sensTest**: [*ARCHIVED*] A program that tests the sensitivity of the model-data fit to
values of a parameter (essentially a one-dimensional parameter
estimation). Its operation is controlled by the file 'sensTest.in'.

## Stand-alone Utilities 

**subsetData**: A utility to subset a data record temporally. This utility
can also perform daily aggregation on the data if so desired. Its
operation is controlled by subset.in.

**transpose**: A little utility to transpose a text file that contains a
rectangular matrix of data. This may be necessary to read certain files
into Excel (e.g. the single-variable output files). Its usage is
'transpose filename'.

**bintotxt**, **txttobin**: Utilities to convert the hist file output from a
estimate run from a binary file to a text file, and back again.

Commit message:

Build documentation using MkDocs (replaces #41) (#53)
* changes are made

* move changelog

* Makefile CHANGELOG and Doxyfile are modified

* required changes are made

* Update docs/Doxyfile

Co-authored-by: Aritra Dey <155592377+AritraDey-Dev@users.noreply.github.com>

* add rm .doxygen.stamp .mkdocs.stamp to make clean

* add .mkdocs.stamp to gitignore

* Refactor Doxygen output path and integrate src/README.md as main page
- Changed Doxygen HTML output directory to docs/api
- Updated .gitignore to ignore docs/api instead of docs/html
- Set Doxyfile OUTPUT_DIRECTORY to docs/api and HTML_OUTPUT to .
- Included src/README.md in INPUT and set it as USE_MDFILE_AS_MAINPAGE
- Modified src/README.md to serve as both GitHub README and Doxygen main page
- Updated mkdocs.yml to point API Reference to api/index.html

---------

Co-authored-by: Aritra Dey <155592377+AritraDey-Dev@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: David LeBauer <dlebauer@gmail.com>

src/README.md, after:

# SIPNET Source Code Documentation
<!--This README is also used as the main page for Doxygen-generated documentation.-->

This document provides an overview of the SIPNET model source code and utilities.  

## Organization and Packages

Organization strategy:
* SIPNET and derivative programs each have their own directory
* Stand-alone utilities all go into the `utilities` subdirectory

### Main program - SIPNET

[Add description here of SIPNET's "compilation switch" strategy - which hopefully
will become command-line params at some point, but not yet. We need to doc the
possible switches somewhere...]

### SIPNET derivatives

**estimate**: The parameter estimation program for SIPNET. Its operation is
controlled by the file 'estimate.in'.

**sensTest**: [*ARCHIVED*] A program that tests the sensitivity of the model-data fit to
values of a parameter (essentially a one-dimensional parameter
estimation). Its operation is controlled by the file 'sensTest.in'.

### Stand-alone Utilities 

**subsetData**: A utility to subset a data record temporally. This utility
can also perform daily aggregation on the data if so desired. Its
operation is controlled by subset.in.

**transpose**: A little utility to transpose a text file that contains a
rectangular matrix of data. This may be necessary to read certain files
into Excel (e.g. the single-variable output files). Its usage is
'transpose filename'.

**bintotxt**, **txttobin**: Utilities to convert the hist file output from a
estimate run from a binary file to a text file, and back again.
